ANTOLIN - DEPLOYMENT WITH DOCKER

First of all, download Docker from the Microsoft Store (search for Docker Desktop) or from the official website. It can be downloaded from this link: "https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop".

Upon opening it, you may need to enable virtualization in your operating system.

To check virtualization status, open Task Manager → Performance → CPU, and verify if virtualization is enabled.

OPTIONAL STEP – ONLY FOR USERS WITH VIRTUALIZATION DISABLED

First, open Windows PowerShell as administrator and paste the following commands:

"dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:Microsoft-Windows-Subsystem-Linux /all /norestart"

"dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:VirtualMachinePlatform /all /norestart"

"dism.exe /online /enable-feature /featurename:Microsoft-Hyper-V-All /all /norestart"

Then, run "bcdedit /set hypervisorlaunchtype auto" and restart your computer.

Once the computer is restarted, open PowerShell as administrator again and run "wsl --install" if you do not already have WSL installed.

If you do have it, execute:

"wsl --update"

"wsl --set-default-version 2"

"wsl --status"

To verify everything is working, run "docker version" and "docker run hello-world".
If the output shows Docker’s welcome message, everything is set up correctly.

DOCKER – First Launch and Application Setup

⚠️ WARNING: This process should only be done the first time you launch the application.

With Docker running, clone the repository with "git clone https://github.com/diegodelcepe/DP-Antolin-IA.git", and move into the folder using "cd DP-Antolin-IA" and "cd Backend".

Next, switch to the branch that contains the functional Docker setup. Run "git fetch origin" to ensure it's up to date.

Finally, Docker will need to containerize the process and install all required dependencies and files necessary to launch the application.
⚠️ NOTE: You will need at least 13 GB of free disk space to run the application.

Run the command "docker compose build api". This will take roughly 5–10 minutes.

Then run:

"docker compose up -d api"

"docker compose logs -f api"

Once done, you only need to access http://127.0.0.1:8000 in your browser to use the application.

To stop the execution, simply run "docker compose down api" or CRTL+C.

Launching the application after the first setup

⚠️ WARNING: This process should only be done with docker desktop launched.

Once the initial setup is completed and Docker is configured, to launch the application again you have execute "git fetch origin" and "git checkout docker-mvp" in case there are updates. Then, you will have to execute "docker compose down api" and "docker compose up api" to re-launch in docker the container with the updated files.